---
title: "Guidelines: Lightning Talks"
showTitle: true
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Lightning Talks" %}

## What is a Lightning Talk?

Lightning Talks describe works in progress, new and untested ideas, or opportunities for collaborative work. The purpose of a Lightning Talk can be to start a discussion, find collaborators, or receive input and critique about an idea. Proposals are limited to 500 words, including the abstract of 250 words,  and will be blind reviewed for acceptance. Lightning Talk presentations will be a maximum of 5 minutes each, including time for questions. Presenters may use slides, but these must be submitted to the Lightning Talks chair a few days before the presentation.

Proposals will undergo blind review.

## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

Lightning Talk proposals must be submitted in PDF format. The full proposal contains an abstract and a description of your Lightning Talk (as detailed below). The abstract needs to appear in two places: in the PDF proposal and in a text box on the submission page.

The full proposal is used for the review process only. If the proposal is accepted, the abstract is the description that appears on the Symposium website, and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The format for the proposal is described below.

## Lightning Talk Proposal Format and Contents (limited to {{site.data.cfp.details["Lightning Talks"].limits}})

-   **Proposer**: Include name, affiliation, email address, and website address. This is not included in the 500 max. word count.  You should expect most correspondence related to the conference to arrive via email. Please check your spam filter if you haven’t received an expected notification because auto-responses generated by the conference software are sometimes blocked.

-   **Title**: A title for the Lightning Talk.

-   **Abstract**: A summary of the Lightning Talk. The same abstract will also need to be submitted via a text box on the submission page. Please be sure that your summary is accurate and that both submitted copies (here in the Lightning Talk Proposal, and in the submission text box) are identical.

-   **Description**: Describe your talk in more detail. It will be helpful for reviewers to know why you are excited about the topic, and why you think others will be interested too. Lightning talks are expected to explore tentative or preliminary work, or even ideas for possible work. Presentations of mature work will not be considered.

## Lightning Talk Abstract

The abstract is the summary of the Lightning talk that will appear on the conference web pages. The summary is limited to, and must match verbatim, the abstract section of the Lightning Talk proposal. The Lightning Talk abstract must be submitted in plain text. The abstract for an accepted proposal may contain a link to a website with more information. (Abstracts of accepted Lightning Talks can be edited in response to reviews.)

### Sample Proposal

* [Sample proposal (PDF)]({{site.base}}/docs/sigcse-sample-lightning-talk.pdf)

* [Sample proposal (Word)]({{site.base}}/docs/sigcse-sample-lightning-talk.docx)

### 2017 Lightning Talks

* Joel Ross, Andrew Ko, David Stearns - [Accessibility as a First-Class Concern in Teaching GUIs and Software Engineering]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/01-Ross-SIGCSE-ligtning-talk-v2.pdf)
* Megan Lawrence and Mary Bellard - [Teach Access: Preparing Computing Students for Industry]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/02-SIGCSE_Teach-Accessv2.pdf)
* Julia Bernd and Jonathan Corley - [Teach Global Impact: A Resource for CSP (or Any CS Class!)]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/03-Bernd_Corley_Teach_Global_Impact_revised.pdf)
* Saty Raghavachary - [Curriculum design for 'Explorations in Computing' (a new General Education course at USC)]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/04-slides_saty-v2.pdf)
* Brian Broll and Ákos Lédeczi - [Bringing Real-Time Collaboration to Visual Programming]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/05-Broll-Updated-SIGCSE17-Lightning-Talk.pdf)
* Patty Hicks - [Moving From Business Education to Computer Science Concepts in the Middle Grades]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/06-P-Hicks-Slides-for-Lightning-Talk.pdf)
* Dee A. B. Weikle - [Using the 5 Practices to Improve Facilitation of POGIL Activities]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/07-Intersection5P-POGILWeikle0309.pdf)
* Chen-Hsiang (Jones) Yu - [Lessons learned from an EPIC course - Mobile Application Development for Mobile Health]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/08-2017_SIGCSE_Lightning_Talk_Yu.pdf)
* Douglas H. Fisher - [Establishing conventions for citing educational materials]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/09-DougFisherSIGCSEPresentation.pdf)
* Kendra Walther - [Class-Sourcing Exams: Student-Generated Exam Questions]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/10-walther-classSourcing.pdf)
* Anurag Nagar - [Developing Big Data Curriculum with Open Source Infrastructure]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/DevelopingBigDataCurriculum.pdf)
* John MacCormick - [Seeking evidence for basing the CS theory course on non-decision problems]({{site.base}}/docs/2017-lightning-talks/11-maccormick-lightning-talk-slides.pdf)

## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

{% include generic-submission-block.html %}

{% include presenter-warning.html %}

{% include submission-questions category="Lightning Talks" %}
