---
title: "Guidelines: Posters"
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Posters" %}

## What Is A Poster?

Posters provide an opportunity for an informal presentation featuring
"give and take" with conference attendees. Presenting a poster is also a
good way in which to discuss and receive feedback on a work in progress
that has not been fully developed into a paper.

Posters should not be previously published or a previous poster.

Poster proposal review is not blind.

Graduate or undergraduate students submitting posters may instead wish
to submit to the [ACM Student Research Competition (SRC)](studentresearchcompetition.html) held
at SIGCSE {{site.data.main.year}}. Like normal posters, SRC posters are
displayed at the conference, but the top poster authors also present
their work and may win prizes and proceed to the international ACM
Student Research Competition.

## Poster Topic Ideas

The topic of a poster presentation is not limited. However, the topic
should lend itself to presentation in poster format with additional
details available in a handout or URL. You might consider a poster
presentation of teaching materials that you would like to share or
preliminary research findings, such as:

-   imaginative assignments
-   innovative curriculum design
-   laboratory materials
-   effective ideas for recruiting and retaining students
-   computing education research that is in a preliminary stage

Suggestions for poster design are given in [Research Posters 101](http://xrds.acm.org/article.cfm?aid=332138). (Although these suggestions were published for student researchers, the ideas are also applicable to posters for this conference.)

## Poster Presentation

Poster presentations at SIGCSE will be competitive and if your proposal
is accepted, your poster will be displayed for a 2-hour time period
Friday during the conference. You will be expected to "present" your
poster at that time. At least one author for each accepted poster must
register for and attend the conference. The space available for your
poster will be 4 feet high by 8 feet wide with a small shelf below.
Power sources are not available.

## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

Proposals are to be provided in PDF format. The full proposal
contains an abstract and a body that describes your poster (as detailed
below). The abstract needs to appear in two places: in the PDF proposal
and in a text box on the submission page.

The full proposal is used for the review process only. If the proposal
is accepted, the abstract is the description that appears on the
Symposium website and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The
format for the proposal is as follows.

### Poster Proposal Format and Contents

-   **Proposer**: Include name, affiliation,
    email address, and website address. You should expect most
    correspondence related to the conference to arrive via email. Please
    check your spam filter if you haven't received an expected
    notification because the auto-responses generated by the conference
    software are sometimes blocked.

-   **Title**: A title for the poster.

-   **Abstract**: A description of the poster. The same abstract will also
    need to be submitted via a text box on the submission page. Please
    be sure that your description is accurate and that both submitted
    copies (here in the poster proposal, and in the submission text box)
    are exactly the same.

-   **Significance and Relevance of the Topic**: Please include information
    about any trends in relation to the topic and possibly describe (or
    cite) evidence to that effect. Your objective here is to explain why
    the topic is significant. You should also justify how your poster
    will engage participants in discussion. This information can help
    your proposal to be selected if resources become an issue.

-   **Content**: A description of the expected content of the poster.

### Poster Abstract

The abstract is the description of the poster that will appear on the
conference web pages. The description is limited to and must match
verbatim the abstract section of the poster Proposal. The poster
abstract must be submitted in plain text. The abstract for an accepted
proposal may contain a URL with more information. (Abstracts of accepted
posters can be edited in response to reviews.)

### Sample Proposal

-  [Proposal Example (PDF)]({{site.base}}/docs/sigcse-sample-poster.pdf)

-  [Proposal Example (Word)]({{site.base}}/docs/sigcse-sample-poster.docx)

## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

{% include generic-submission-block.html %}

{% include presenter-warning.html %}

{% include submission-questions category="Posters" %}
