---
title: "Guidelines: Student Research Competition"
showTitle: true
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Student Research Competition" %}

The ***ACM Student Research Competition*** held at the {{site.data.main.year}}
SIGCSE conference will consist of two categories of competition,
graduate and undergraduate, with prizes awarded based on judging during
the conference. Research from all areas of computer science qualifies.
All graduate submissions must represent a student's individual research
contribution but undergraduate submissions may represent individual or
team research contributions. A student must be an ACM student member to
qualify for awards and travel grants.

Judges will include professional computer scientists attending the
conference activities. Students' research will be evaluated on the
quality and significance of the work, and the quality and clarity of
both an oral and visual presentation.

The first round of the competition evaluates the research during a
poster presentation. Those students who are selected by the judges to
advance to the second round will continue in the competition by giving a
formal, short, conference presentation of their research. The top three
winners in the undergraduate and graduate categories as determined by
the judges' evaluation of the conference presentations will receive the
prizes of \$500, \$300, and \$200, respectively. These winners will
advance to a final student research contest round where all ACM SIG
conference contest winners are evaluated to determine one overall
student research contest winner. Only individual research may be
submitted.

No more than three research projects will be accepted from a single
department and no more than two of those can be in a single category.
Departments are determined by the location of the research advisor.
Submissions for the research competition should describe the results of
recently completed or ongoing computer science research conducted
primarily by students.

Additional competition details, including information about past
winners, can be found on the [ACM Student Research Competition home page
([http://www.acm.org/src/](http://www.acm.org/src/)).

## What Should a Submission Contain?

Research projects from all areas of computer science are acceptable. The
author submitting the abstract must still be a student at the time the
abstract is due. Each submission should include the author's name,
affiliation, postal address, and email address; research advisor's name;
ACM student member number; category (undergraduate or graduate);
research title; and an extended abstract (maximum
{{site.data.cfp.details[plural].limits}}) containing the following
sections:

Student Research Competition Proposal Format and Contents (limited to
{{site.data.cfp.details["Student Research Competition"].limits}})

-   **Problem and Motivation**: This section should clearly state the
    problem being addressed and explain the reasons for seeking a
    solution to this problem.

-   **Background and Related Work**: This section should describe the
    specialized (but pertinent) background necessary to appreciate the
    work. Include references to the literature where appropriate, and
    briefly explain where your work departs from that done by others.
    Reference lists do not count towards the limit on the length of the
    abstract.

-   **Approach and Uniqueness**: This section should describe your approach
    in attacking the problem and should clearly state how your approach
    is novel.

-   **Results and Contributions**: This section should clearly show how the
    results of your work contribute to computer science and should
    explain the significance of those results.

## Student Research Competition Abstract (limited to {{site.data.cfp.details["Student Research Competition"].abstract}})

Include a separate paragraph (maximum of
{{site.data.cfp.details[plural].abstract}}, including whitespace) for
publication in the conference proceedings that serves as a succinct
description of the project.

## How Do I Submit My Entry?

Submit a plain ASCII-text electronic copy of the extended abstract
({{site.data.cfp.details[plural].limits}}) by the submission deadline.

Travel grants of up to \$500 may be available for students who do not
have another source of funding and are ACM student members.

{% include submission-questions category="Student Research Competition" %}