---
title: "Guidelines: Workshops"
showTitle: true
---

{% include submissiondetails.html plural="Workshops" %}

## What is a Workshop?

Workshops provide an in-depth review of, or introduction to, a topic of
interest, and should provide participants with materials and/or ideas
that are immediately useful in the classroom. To this end, workshop
presenters should provide participants with handouts outlining the
workshop material.

Workshop proposals undergo review but not blind review. Proposals are
evaluated for relevance, anticipated interest, quality, and availability
of appropriate facilities. You may want to review the list of last
year’s accepted SIGCSE workshops prior to submitting a proposal.

SIGCSE will reimburse presenters for handouts (up to \$5 per
participant) and will provide one night free lodging per accepted
workshop (not per presenter) at the conference hotel.

## Hands-On Lab-Based Workshops

All hands-on workshops at SIGCSE {{site.data.main.year}} will use
participants' laptop computers at the conference site. The Symposium
Committee will help presenters distribute workshop software to
participants prior to the Symposium, e.g., by providing attendee e-mail
addresses for software distribution. Distribution of software is the
responsibility of the workshop leaders. We recommend that the organizers
of each hands-on workshop create their own web page (on their own
server) with all necessary software and instructions for installation.
To accommodate late registrations, we will collect these URLs and make
them available to late registrants when they register on-site. We will
also provide presenters with mailing lists containing the emails of
current enrollees soon after the close of the early registration window.

Proposers of hands-on workshops should indicate which of the following
formats they wish for their workshop:

-   **Laptop Required**. Participants should bring a laptop computer to
    participate in this workshop.

-   **Laptop Recommended**. It is recommended, but not required, that
    participants bring a laptop computer to this workshop.

-   **Laptop Optional**. It is not necessary for participants to bring
    laptops to this workshop.

## How Should The Proposal Be Formatted?

Workshop proposals are to be provided in PDF format. The full proposal
contains an abstract and a body that describes your Workshop (as
detailed below). The abstract needs to appear in two places: in the PDF
proposal and in a text box on the submission page.

The full proposal is used for the review process only. If the proposal
is accepted, the abstract is the description that appears on the
Symposium website and in the Symposium program and proceedings. The
format for the proposal is as follows.

## Full Workshop Proposal Format ({{site.data.cfp.details["Workshops"].limits}})

-   **Proposer**: Include name, affiliation,
    email address, and website address. You should expect most
    correspondence related to the conference to arrive via email. Please
    check your spam filter if you haven't received an expected
    notification because the auto-responses generated by the conference
    software are sometimes blocked.

-   **Title**: A title for the Workshop.

-   **Abstract**: A description of the Workshop. The same abstract will also
    need to be submitted via a text box on the submission page. Include
    information about the intended audience and computing
    requirements in the abstract to help readers make an informed choice
    about attending your workshop, should it be accepted.  Please be
    sure that your description is accurate and that both submitted
    copies (here in the Workshop Proposal, and in the submission text
    box) are exactly the same.

-   **Significance and Relevance of the Topic**: Please include information
    about any trends in relation to the topic and possibly describe (or
    cite) evidence to that effect. Your objective here is to explain why
    the topic is significant.

-   **Expected Audience**: Briefly describe the nature and size of the
    expected audience. This information will help gauge the level of
    interest SIGCSE attendees will have in the Workshop.

-   **Space and Enrollment Restrictions**: Please tell us the maximum number
    of participants that you can accommodate. If no limit is specified,
    we will assume a cap of 30 participants. Be aware that, if interest
    is strong, we may seek to raise the limit to 40 or more. Also
    indicate any special restrictions on the configuration of the room
    (flip chart easels, clear floor space for robots, etc.).

-   **Other Presenter(s)**: Although correspondence will be with the
    proposer above, it will be the discussion leader(s) who will be
    mentioned in Symposium literature. Please list any additional such
    names (besides the proposer) and affiliations here. Be certain that
    you have their commitments to attend the Symposium. All presenters
    must register for the SIGCSE conference and be present for the
    Workshop session.

-   **Expertise of Presenter(s)**: Give a summary of the qualifications of
    the presenter(s) as it relates to the topic being proposed.

-   **Rough Agenda for the Workshop**: Timing details would be helpful here.
    Explain what the attendees can expect. Be sure to budget a realistic
    amount of time for questions from attendees. Please keep in mind the
    time limit of 3 hours for your workshop, including a 15 minute
    break.  Prior to the Symposium workshop presenters will be informed
    at what time the break refreshments will be available.

-   **Audio/Visual and Computer Requirements**: Indicate your A/V
    requirements, such as wireless access, wired access, extra power
    outlets, microphone, digital projector, overhead projector, flip
    charts and pens, whiteboards, etc. Please note that certain A/V
    materials and equipment will be available for all workshops.
    Specialty items may require the minimum registrants for a workshop
    to be raised to cover additional costs. At the time of acceptance,
    more information about the standard vs. non-standard A/V equipment
    will be available. For hands-on workshops, indicate Laptop
    Recommended, Laptop Required, or Laptop Optional (see " Hands-on
    Lab-based Workshops " above) and which operating systems are
    supported (Linux, Mac, Windows, Android, iOS). Describe any special
    requirements for attendees' computers.

-   **Other Critical Information**: Other notes that will help to evaluate
    your proposal according to the evaluation criteria described above.

## Workshop Abstract

The abstract is the description of the Workshop that will appear on the
conference web pages. The description is limited to and must match
verbatim the abstract section of the Workshop Proposal. The Workshop
abstract must be submitted in plain text. The abstract for an accepted
proposal may contain a URL with more information. (Abstracts of accepted
Workshop can be edited in response to reviews.)

### Sample Proposal

-  [Proposal Example (PDF)]({{"/docs/sigcse-sample-workshop.pdf"|absolute_url}})

-  [Proposal Example (Word)]({{"/docs/sigcse-sample-workshop.docx"|absolute_url}})


## How Do I Submit My Proposal?

{% include generic-submission-block.html %}

{% include presenter-warning.html howmany = "ALL" kind = "workshop" %}

{% include submission-questions category="Workshops" %}
